.\" temprsall(1) — comprehensive all-in-one man page for temprs
.\" Modeled after zshall(1): every man page in one document.
.\" Render with:  man -l man/man1/temprsall.1
.\" Install:      cp man/man1/temprsall.1 /usr/local/share/man/man1/
.TH TEMPRSALL 1 "May 2026" "temprs 2.9.13" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
temprsall \- the temprs comprehensive reference (stack semantics,
indexing, every option, name tags, data integrity, examples)
.SH OVERVIEW
This is the all-in-one
.B temprs
manual, modeled on
.BR zshall (1).
It concatenates the major sections of the temprs reference into a
single page so you can grep with `/`:
.RS 2
.PP
.B 1.  INVOCATION
.RB "\(em " "binaries (temprs, tp), default behavior, stdin priority"
.br
.B 2.  STACK MODEL
.RB "\(em " "ordering, top/bottom, push/pop/shift/unshift"
.br
.B 3.  INDEXING
.RB "\(em " "positive, negative, name tags, invalid index 0"
.br
.B 4.  DATA I/O OPTIONS
.RB "\(em " "every -i/-o/-a/-r/-p/-u/-s/-A/-e flag"
.br
.B 5.  STACK INSPECTION
.RB "\(em " "-d/-m/-l/-n/-L/-N/-k/-I/--path/--size/--wc/--head/--tail"
.br
.B 6.  SEARCH & CONTENT
.RB "\(em " "-g grep, -C cat, -D diff, --replace"
.br
.B 7.  REORDERING & LIFECYCLE
.RB "\(em " "-M mv, -S swap, -x dup, --rev, --sort, -c clear, --expire"
.br
.B 8.  TAGGING
.RB "\(em " "-w name, -R rename"
.br
.B 9.  DATA INTEGRITY
.RB "\(em " "null-byte master record, atomic writes, flock(2), auto-recovery"
.br
.B 10. ENVIRONMENT
.br
.B 11. FILES
.br
.B 12. EXIT STATUS
.br
.B 13. EXAMPLES
.RB "\(em " "one-liners, pipelines, name-tag patterns, sort+expire"
.RE
.PP
For a shorter quick-reference page see
.BR temprs (1).
.SH NAME
temprs, tp \- temporary file stack manager with atomic flock-protected
master record
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B temprs
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.RI [ argfile ]
.br
.B tp
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.RI [ argfile ]
.PP
.B tp
is a shorter alias binary installed alongside
.BR temprs
\(em same binary, same options.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B temprs
maintains a
.B stack
of tempfiles under
.IR $TEMPRS_DIR
(default
.IR $TMPDIR/temprs ).
New tempfiles are pushed onto the top of the stack; existing tempfiles
can be read, edited, tagged, reordered, searched, diffed, or removed by
positional index or by name tag.
.PP
With no options, input is read from standard input (if present) or from
the positional
.I argfile
and written to a new tempfile on top of the stack.
.PP
.B Master record:
the stack ordering, name tags, and per-entry metadata live in a single
.B null-byte-delimited
master file
.RB ( "\\0"
field separator,
.B "\\0\\0"
record separator), atomically written and protected by an exclusive
.BR flock (2)
lock.  Filenames may contain newlines, tabs, spaces, and any other
special characters without ambiguity.
.SH "1.  INVOCATION"
The default invocation
.RB ( "tp" )
reads stdin (or
.IR argfile )
and pushes a new tempfile onto the top of the stack.  Stdin takes
priority over
.I argfile
when both are present.
.PP
Every other behavior is gated by an explicit option:
.B \-p
pops,
.B \-o INDEX
outputs,
.B \-e INDEX
edits,
.B \-l
lists, etc.
.PP
Both binaries
.RB ( "temprs"
and
.BR "tp" )
are installed and equivalent.  Use
.B tp
for muscle memory; use
.B temprs
in scripts that need the long name visible.
.SH "2.  STACK MODEL"
.PP
.RS 2
.nf
 ┌─────────────────────────────────────┐
 │  INDEX N   ░░  TOP OF STACK (newest)│
 │  INDEX N-1 ░░  ...                  │
 │  INDEX 2   ░░  ...                  │
 │  INDEX 1   ░░  BOTTOM OF STACK      │
 └─────────────────────────────────────┘
.fi
.RE
.PP
.B Operations:
.PP
.TS
tab(|);
l l.
.B Operation|.B Flag
push (top)|default (stdin / argfile)
pop (top)|\-p / \-\-pop
shift (bottom)|\-s / \-\-shift
unshift (bottom)|\-u / \-\-unshift
peek (output by index)|\-o INDEX
insert at INDEX|\-a INDEX
remove at INDEX|\-r INDEX
duplicate at INDEX|\-x INDEX
.TE
.SH "3.  INDEXING"
Tempfiles are numbered in ascending order; the
.B highest index is the top of the stack.
.PP
.TS
tab(|);
l l.
.B Range|.B Meaning
\fB1\fR .. \fIstack_size\fR|positive index, bottom to top
\fB\-stack_size\fR .. \fB\-1\fR|negative index, top to bottom (-1 = top)
\fB0\fR|always invalid
.TE
.PP
Where an option accepts an
.IR INDEX ,
a previously assigned
.B name tag
(see
.BR \-w )
may be used in its place.  Names take precedence over numeric indices
when the string is non-numeric.
.PP
.B Examples:
.PP
.RS
.nf
tp \-o 1            # bottom of stack
tp \-o \-1           # top of stack
tp \-o config       # named tag "config"
tp \-w build && cargo build > $(tp \-\-path build)
.fi
.RE
.SH "4.  DATA I/O OPTIONS"
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-input " " \fIINDEX\fR
Write standard input into the tempfile at
.IR INDEX ,
overwriting its contents.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " " \fIINDEX\fR
Read the tempfile at
.I INDEX
to standard output.
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-add " " \fIINDEX\fR
Insert a new tempfile at
.IR INDEX ,
shifting existing entries upward.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-remove " " \fIINDEX\fR
Remove the tempfile at
.IR INDEX .
The file on disk is deleted; remaining indices are renumbered.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-pop
Pop the tempfile from the top of the stack and emit its contents on
stdout.  The file is removed from disk after the read completes.
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-unshift
Push a new tempfile onto the
.B bottom
of the stack from standard input.  No output is produced.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-shift
Shift the tempfile from the
.B bottom
of the stack and emit its contents.  The file is removed from disk
after the read completes.
.TP
.BR \-A ", " \-\-append " " \fIINDEX\fR
Append standard input to the tempfile at
.IR INDEX
(does not overwrite).
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-edit " " \fIINDEX\fR
Open the tempfile at
.I INDEX
in
.BR $EDITOR .
Falls back to
.BR vi (1)
if
.B $EDITOR
is unset.
.SH "5.  STACK INSPECTION"
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-dir
Print the temprs working directory path.
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-master
Print the master record file path.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-list\-files
List all tempfile paths on the stack, one per line.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-list\-files\-numbered
List all tempfile paths, prefixed by index.
.TP
.BR \-L ", " \-\-list\-contents
Concatenate every tempfile's contents to stdout, with separators.
.TP
.BR \-N ", " \-\-list\-contents\-numbered
Same as
.B \-L
but with index headers between entries.
.TP
.BR \-k ", " \-\-count
Print the number of tempfiles on the stack.
.TP
.BR \-I ", " \-\-info " " \fIINDEX\fR
Show metadata (path, size, mtime, name tag) for the tempfile at
.IR INDEX .
.TP
.BR \-\-path " " \fIINDEX\fR
Print the absolute filesystem path of the tempfile at
.IR INDEX .
Useful for shell substitution:
.B "$(tp \-\-path build)"
.TP
.BR \-\-size " " \fIINDEX\fR
Print the byte size of the tempfile at
.IR INDEX .
.TP
.BR \-\-wc " " \fIINDEX\fR
Print the line count of the tempfile at
.IR INDEX .
.TP
.BR \-\-head " " \fIINDEX " " N\fR
Show the first
.I N
lines of the tempfile at
.IR INDEX .
.TP
.BR \-\-tail " " \fIINDEX " " N\fR
Show the last
.I N
lines of the tempfile at
.IR INDEX .
.SH "6.  SEARCH & CONTENT"
.TP
.BR \-g ", " \-\-grep " " \fIPATTERN\fR
Search every tempfile's contents for
.IR PATTERN .
Prints matching lines with index prefix and line number.
.TP
.BR \-C ", " \-\-cat " " \fIINDEX...\fR
Concatenate the tempfiles at the given indices to standard output, in
the order specified.
.TP
.BR \-D ", " \-\-diff " " \fIA " " B\fR
Diff two tempfiles by index or name tag.  Uses the system
.BR diff (1).
.TP
.BR \-\-replace " " \fIINDEX " " PATTERN " " REPLACEMENT\fR
In-place find-and-replace inside the tempfile at
.IR INDEX .
.SH "7.  REORDERING & LIFECYCLE"
.TP
.BR \-M ", " \-\-mv " " \fIFROM " " TO\fR
Move the tempfile at position
.I FROM
to position
.IR TO .
.TP
.BR \-S ", " \-\-swap " " \fIA " " B\fR
Swap two tempfiles by index or name.
.TP
.BR \-x ", " \-\-dup " " \fIINDEX\fR
Duplicate the tempfile at
.I INDEX
onto the top of the stack.
.TP
.BR \-\-rev
Reverse the entire stack order.
.TP
.BR \-\-sort " [" \fIKEY\fR "]"
Sort the stack.  Valid
.I KEY
values:
.B name ,
.B size ,
.BR mtime .
Defaults to
.B name
when no key is given.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-clear
Purge all tempfiles from the stack.  Files on disk are deleted; the
master record is rewritten empty.
.TP
.BR \-\-expire " " \fIHOURS\fR
Purge tempfiles older than
.I HOURS
hours (by mtime).
.SH "7a. WORK QUEUE"
The stack doubles as a daemonless, broker-free, at-least-once work queue.
.TP
.BR \-\-lease " [" \fB\-\-lease\-ttl\fR " " \fISECS\fR "]"
Atomically move the bottom item of the stack into an inflight lease record
with a generated token and expiry deadline, then print
.I path
and
.I token
separated by a tab.  The file is re-pointed, never copied.  The deadline
defaults to 300 seconds and may be overridden with
.BR \-\-lease\-ttl .
An expired lease is returned to the stack on the next
.B temprs
invocation, so a crashed worker yields redelivery rather than lost work.
.TP
.BR \-\-ack " " \fITOKEN\fR
Acknowledge the lease
.IR TOKEN :
delete the leased file and drop its inflight record.
.TP
.BR \-\-nack " " \fITOKEN\fR
Return the lease
.I TOKEN
to the bottom of the stack for redelivery and drop its inflight record.
.SH "8.  TAGGING"
.TP
.BR \-w ", " \-\-name " " \fINAME\fR
Tag the new tempfile with
.I NAME
so it can be addressed by name anywhere an
.I INDEX
is accepted.
.TP
.BR \-R ", " \-\-rename " " \fIOLD " " NEW\fR
Rename a tag from
.I OLD
to
.IR NEW .
.PP
Name tags are persisted in the master record and survive across
sessions until the tempfile is removed.
.SH "9.  DATA INTEGRITY"
The master record is hardened against corruption and concurrent
access:
.TP
.B Null-byte delimited format
.B "\\0"
field separator,
.B "\\0\\0"
record separator.  Supports filenames with newlines, tabs, spaces, and
any other special characters.
.TP
.B Atomic writes
Data is written to a temp file and atomically
.BR rename (2)d
into place.  Crash during write leaves the old record intact.
.TP
.B Exclusive file locking
A
.BR flock (2)
exclusive lock on
.I $TEMPRS_DIR/temprs-stack.lock
serializes concurrent writers from multiple shells / scripts.  Readers
take a shared lock.
.TP
.B Auto-recovery
Corrupt or empty records in the master file are silently skipped and
cleaned up on the next write.  No manual recovery step required.
.SH "10. ENVIRONMENT"
.TP
.B TEMPRS_DIR
Override the directory used for tempfiles and the master record.
Defaults to
.IR $TMPDIR/temprs .
.TP
.B TMPDIR
Falls through to
.B TEMPRS_DIR
default base (defaults to
.IR /tmp
when unset).
.TP
.B EDITOR
Editor used by
.BR \-\-edit .
Defaults to
.BR vi (1).
.SH "11. FILES"
.TP
.I $TEMPRS_DIR/temprs-stack
Master record file.  Null-byte delimited, atomically written, protected
by
.IR temprs-stack.lock .
.TP
.I $TEMPRS_DIR/temprs-stack.lock
Exclusive
.BR flock (2)
lock file for the master record.
.TP
.I $TEMPRS_DIR/temprs-inflight
Inflight lease sidecar record for the
.BR \-\-lease " / " \-\-ack " / " \-\-nack
work queue.  Holds each leased item as path, token, deadline, and optional
name tag, using the same null-byte delimited, atomically written,
flock-protected format as the master record.  Expired leases are swept back
onto the stack on the next invocation.
.TP
.I $TEMPRS_DIR/temp-*
Individual tempfiles created by
.BR temprs .
.TP
.I /usr/local/share/man/man1/temprs.1
Short reference man page.
.TP
.I /usr/local/share/man/man1/temprsall.1
This man page.
.SH "12. EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B "non-zero"
Error: invalid index, missing tempfile, I/O failure, master record
lock failure, etc.
.SH "13. EXAMPLES"
.PP
Push command output onto the stack:
.RS
.nf
ls \-la | tp
.fi
.RE
.PP
Push from a file:
.RS
.nf
tp /etc/hosts
.fi
.RE
.PP
Tag a tempfile and recall it by name:
.RS
.nf
echo hello | tp \-w greeting
tp \-o greeting
.fi
.RE
.PP
Use a tagged tempfile path in another command:
.RS
.nf
cargo build > $(tp \-\-path build) 2>&1
.fi
.RE
.PP
Pop the top tempfile:
.RS
.nf
tp \-p
.fi
.RE
.PP
Shift the bottom tempfile:
.RS
.nf
tp \-s
.fi
.RE
.PP
Read the top tempfile without consuming it:
.RS
.nf
tp \-o \-1
.fi
.RE
.PP
List the stack with indices:
.RS
.nf
tp \-n
.fi
.RE
.PP
Count entries:
.RS
.nf
tp \-k
.fi
.RE
.PP
Edit a named tempfile in $EDITOR:
.RS
.nf
tp \-e config
.fi
.RE
.PP
Append to a tagged tempfile:
.RS
.nf
date | tp \-A log
.fi
.RE
.PP
Insert before the top entry:
.RS
.nf
echo important | tp \-a \-1
.fi
.RE
.PP
Grep across all stack entries:
.RS
.nf
tp \-g 'TODO'
.fi
.RE
.PP
Concatenate selected entries:
.RS
.nf
tp \-C 1 3 5 > merged.txt
.fi
.RE
.PP
Diff two tagged tempfiles:
.RS
.nf
tp \-D alpha beta
.fi
.RE
.PP
Find-and-replace inside a tempfile:
.RS
.nf
tp \-\-replace config 'localhost' '127.0.0.1'
.fi
.RE
.PP
Move the bottom entry to the top:
.RS
.nf
tp \-M 1 \-1
.fi
.RE
.PP
Swap two entries:
.RS
.nf
tp \-S 2 5
.fi
.RE
.PP
Duplicate an entry onto the top:
.RS
.nf
tp \-x important
.fi
.RE
.PP
Sort the stack by modification time:
.RS
.nf
tp \-\-sort mtime
.fi
.RE
.PP
Reverse the stack:
.RS
.nf
tp \-\-rev
.fi
.RE
.PP
Expire tempfiles older than 24 hours:
.RS
.nf
tp \-\-expire 24
.fi
.RE
.PP
Clear everything:
.RS
.nf
tp \-c
.fi
.RE
.PP
Rename a tag:
.RS
.nf
tp \-R old_name new_name
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show first 10 lines of the top entry:
.RS
.nf
tp \-\-head \-1 10
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show last 5 lines of a tagged entry:
.RS
.nf
tp \-\-tail config 5
.fi
.RE
.PP
Quiet push (no stdout):
.RS
.nf
ls | tp \-q
.fi
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
.B Jacob Menke
.RI < linux.dev25@gmail.com >
and contributors.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at
.UR https://github.com/MenkeTechnologies/temprs/issues
.UE .
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co Jacob Menke.  Released under the MIT license.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR temprs (1),
.BR mktemp (1),
.BR flock (2),
.BR rename (2),
.BR vi (1),
.BR strykeall (1),
.BR lsofrsall (1),
.BR zshrsall (1)
