.TH TEMPRS 1 "2026-05-14" "temprs 2.9.9" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
temprs, tp \- temporary file manager with stack mechanism
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B temprs
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.RI [ argfile ]
.br
.B tp
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.RI [ argfile ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B temprs
is a temporary file manager that maintains a stack of tempfiles. New
tempfiles are pushed onto the top of the stack; existing tempfiles may be
read, edited, tagged, reordered, searched, diffed, or removed by positional
index or by name tag. Both the
.B temprs
and
.B tp
binaries are installed and are equivalent.
.PP
With no options, input is read from standard input (if present) or from the
positional
.I argfile
and written to a new tempfile on top of the stack.
.SH INDEXING
Tempfiles are numbered in ascending order; the highest index is the top of
the stack. Positive indices range from
.B 1
to
.IR stack_size .
Negative indices range from
.B -stack_size
to
.BR -1 .
The index
.B 0
is always invalid. Where an option accepts an
.IR INDEX ,
a previously assigned name tag (see
.BR \-w )
may be used in its place.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Data I/O
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-input " " \fIINDEX\fR
Write standard input into the tempfile at
.IR INDEX ,
overwriting its contents.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " " \fIINDEX\fR
Read the tempfile at
.I INDEX
to standard output.
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-add " " \fIINDEX\fR
Insert a new tempfile at
.IR INDEX ,
shifting existing entries.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-remove " " \fIINDEX\fR
Remove the tempfile at
.IR INDEX .
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-pop
Pop the tempfile from the top of the stack and emit its contents.
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-unshift
Push a new tempfile onto the bottom of the stack from standard input. No
output is produced.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-shift
Shift the tempfile from the bottom of the stack and emit its contents.
.TP
.BR \-A ", " \-\-append " " \fIINDEX\fR
Append standard input to the tempfile at
.IR INDEX .
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-edit " " \fIINDEX\fR
Open the tempfile at
.I INDEX
in
.BR $EDITOR .
If
.B $EDITOR
is unset,
.B vi
is used.
.SS Stack inspection
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-dir
List the temprs working directory.
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-master
List the temprs master record file path.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-list\-files
List all tempfile paths on the stack.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-list\-files\-numbered
List all tempfile paths numbered.
.TP
.BR \-L ", " \-\-list\-contents
List the contents of every tempfile on the stack.
.TP
.BR \-N ", " \-\-list\-contents\-numbered
List the contents of every tempfile, numbered.
.TP
.BR \-k ", " \-\-count
Print the number of tempfiles on the stack.
.TP
.BR \-I ", " \-\-info " " \fIINDEX\fR
Show metadata for the tempfile at
.IR INDEX .
.TP
.BR \-\-path " " \fIINDEX\fR
Print the absolute file path of the tempfile at
.IR INDEX .
.TP
.BR \-\-size " " \fIINDEX\fR
Print the byte size of the tempfile at
.IR INDEX .
.TP
.BR \-\-wc " " \fIINDEX\fR
Print the line count of the tempfile at
.IR INDEX .
.TP
.BR \-\-head " " \fIINDEX " " N\fR
Show the first
.I N
lines of the tempfile at
.IR INDEX .
.TP
.BR \-\-tail " " \fIINDEX " " N\fR
Show the last
.I N
lines of the tempfile at
.IR INDEX .
.SS Search & content
.TP
.BR \-g ", " \-\-grep " " \fIPATTERN\fR
Search every tempfile's contents for
.IR PATTERN .
.TP
.BR \-C ", " \-\-cat " " \fIINDEX...\fR
Concatenate the tempfiles at the given indices to standard output.
.TP
.BR \-D ", " \-\-diff " " \fIA " " B\fR
Diff two tempfiles by index or name.
.TP
.BR \-\-replace " " \fIINDEX " " PATTERN " " REPLACEMENT\fR
Replace every occurrence of
.I PATTERN
with
.I REPLACEMENT
in the tempfile at
.IR INDEX .
.SS Reordering & lifecycle
.TP
.BR \-M ", " \-\-mv " " \fIFROM " " TO\fR
Move the tempfile at position
.I FROM
to position
.IR TO .
.TP
.BR \-S ", " \-\-swap " " \fIA " " B\fR
Swap two tempfiles by index or name.
.TP
.BR \-x ", " \-\-dup " " \fIINDEX\fR
Duplicate the tempfile at
.I INDEX
onto the top of the stack.
.TP
.BR \-\-rev
Reverse the entire stack order.
.TP
.BR \-\-sort " [" \fIKEY\fR "]"
Sort the stack. Valid
.I KEY
values are
.BR name ,
.BR size ,
and
.BR mtime .
Defaults to
.B name
when no key is given.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-clear
Purge all tempfiles from the stack.
.TP
.BR \-\-expire " " \fIHOURS\fR
Purge tempfiles older than
.I HOURS
hours.
.SS Tagging
.TP
.BR \-w ", " \-\-name " " \fINAME\fR
Tag the new tempfile with
.I NAME
so it can be addressed by name in any
.I INDEX
position.
.TP
.BR \-R ", " \-\-rename " " \fIOLD " " NEW\fR
Rename a tag from
.I OLD
to
.IR NEW .
.SS Miscellaneous
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Suppress output when creating a tempfile.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Increase verbosity. May be repeated to raise the log level.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print help and exit.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.SH POSITIONAL ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I argfile
Read input from
.I argfile
into a new tempfile. Standard input takes priority when both are present.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TEMPRS_DIR
Override the directory used for tempfiles and the master record. Defaults
to
.IR $TMPDIR/temprs .
.TP
.B EDITOR
Editor used by
.BR \-\-edit .
Defaults to
.BR vi .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $TEMPRS_DIR/temprs-stack
Master record file. Null-byte delimited (\\0 field separator, \\0\\0 record
separator), atomically written, protected by an exclusive
.BR flock (2)
lock at
.IR $TEMPRS_DIR/temprs-stack.lock .
Corrupt or empty records are silently skipped and cleaned up on the next
write.
.TP
.I $TEMPRS_DIR/temp-*
Individual tempfiles created by
.BR temprs .
.SH EXAMPLES
Push command output onto the stack:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
ls -la | tp
.fi
.RE
.PP
Tag a tempfile and recall it by name:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
echo hello | tp -w greeting
tp -o greeting
.fi
.RE
.PP
Pop the top tempfile:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
tp -p
.fi
.RE
.PP
Diff two tagged tempfiles:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
tp -D alpha beta
.fi
.RE
.PP
Sort the stack by modification time:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
tp --sort mtime
.fi
.RE
.PP
Expire tempfiles older than 24 hours:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
tp --expire 24
.fi
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B temprs
exits with status
.B 0
on success and a non-zero status on error (invalid index, missing
tempfile, I/O failure, master record lock failure, etc.).
.SH AUTHOR
Jacob Menke <linux.dev25@gmail.com> and contributors.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at <https://github.com/MenkeTechnologies/temprs/issues>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co Jacob Menke. Released under the MIT license.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mktemp (1),
.BR flock (2),
.BR vi (1)
